These are selections from work in progress that speaks from years with the Zunis in New Mexico.
Dennis Tedlock. 13 Poems

Advice Received

Don’t ask too many questions. 
Don’t ask questions about religion. 
Don’t take notes in front of people. 
If someone is chopping wood 
don’t just stand there.


Dialogue

- I could tell you a story.
It’s the story told to all boys when they are initiated.
Do you want me to it? -

If you want to tell it go ahead. -

Don’t say that.
Say you want me to tell the story.


The Hunter’s Wife

1
She looks out the window
the snow is falling
her husband went hunting for elk
the boy went along too
a neighbor thinks he saw them at Red Hill
she hasn’t seen the sun all day.

2
She was out in the woods
gathering pine nuts 
and there 
under a tree 
was a fawn 
the fawn said 
-Tie me up. -

3
The men left her in camp for the day
a wounded buck
charged right into the fire
she hit him over the head with a frying pan.


The Fire in Your Fireplace
 You started it right up with one match, it must be your aunt loves you it was quiet for awhile but now listen to that fire! The flames go straight up it roars! Someone is hungry, it must be your great-grandparents every time you eat take a little bread a little meat throw it in the fire, say - Great-grandparents! Eat! - That’s the shortest prayer there is.


Winter Solstice
 Here is the place of fear for four days no greasy foods are eaten there is no coffee no trade all places of business are closed for ten days no sweepings no garbage is taken out of the house no fire is taken out of the house not even cigarettes are lighted outside people shouldn’t use their cars the street lights are all turned out this is the middle of time.

 Recipe
 Fill a bowl with hot water add, to taste: dried leaves of wild mint ground chili onions dried chinchweed flowers wolfberries and venison jerky. This is called hot-bowl it is an ancient dish.

 Cornshucking
 Pull down the husk all around then twist it all off at once with the stem put the dry ears in this pile for us put the damp ears the moldy ears in this one for the hogs and throw the shucks out there some of the ears are yellow some are blue red white some are pretty the multicolored ones some are black look for the Fully-Finished-Ear without a single kernel missing right to the very tip a deer, a buck wears that one on his breast and the Flat-Ear with a forked tip a doe wears that one on her breast and the Road-Ear with a groove down its whole length runners wear that one on their backs now here it is a Fully-Finished-Ear but it’s wet I’ll put it at the edge of the good pile and here is an ear yellow, but each kernel is tinged with red it’s sort of pretty there’s no name for this one I’ll put it here on the fence rail maybe I’ll do something with it later.

#poem


Tags:
  poem, Reference